(soft guitar music)
Now in this video we are going to
introduce you to something called Router function.
So this is a new functional programming paradigm
that's available inside of Spring 5.
It's primarily gained toward microservices
and providing RESTful endpoints,
and what we wanna do in this video,
we just wanna get our feet wet with it,
get an idea of using it.
And I am going to expose a JSON response
for listing out the recipes.
So pretty simple thing.
And let's go ahead and configure this now,
I'm gonna live code it because it's really
not that much code, it's like crazy simple to
stand up a rest endpoint.
So I'm gonna create a New Package.
Call it config.
And let's go ahead and, let's call this WebConfig.
Going to add that into Git.
And this does need to be at configuration class
and just by convention I usually like
to put my configuration classes in a config folder
or a config package.
You don't have to do this but it is my
personal preference.
Now i know it is kind of my go-to spot
for looking for configuration classes.
So we are going to create a new RouterFunction.
Going to say routes.
And let's go ahead and do this.
What we wanna do is return.
We're gonna build a route.
And let's do GET, we're gonna have to do
a static import here.
And we are going to do, let's call it
api/recipes.
So we'll do a GET function on that
and we're gonna come over here
IntelliJ highlighting that in red.
So I'm gonna do an alt enter on that
and we wanna import the static method here
so this is going to be from the web reactive package.
So now that is happy.
We wanna do a comma.
We're gonna pass in a serverRequest, ServerResponse.
And we want to say .ok.
Going to tab that in a little bit.
And this is a functional paradigm here.
contentType, we want to do APPLICATION_JSON.
And we are going to return a body.
So see how it takes in a publisher and a class.
And what we wanna do is we wanna pass in this,
take in our recipeService.
And by marking this as a @Bean, this now becomes
a Spring managed component.
And we will get an instance of the
RecipeService injected for us.
And we can say getRecipes().
Then finally we can say, let's see here
I've got one little mistake.
That's closing that.
Cut something off here, the syntax gets
a little funny to work with if you're not used to it.
Had one param off there, so now what this is
setting up is called a RouterFunction,
and now that I have it all complete
you can see I am saying route GET or the HTTP method GET,
so when I go to api/recipes we are gonna
provide a ServerResponse with an ok status,
contentType with APPLICATION_JSON
and we are gonna call out to the recipeService
and get a Flux of the recipes
and we're gonna pass back, we are saying
that it's a type of Recipe class.
And now let's go ahead and start this up.
And we will run this.
Okay so we are up and running,
let's toggle over to Chrome, add the api/recipes here.
Make sure I spelled that right.
I see the mistake I made, need a slash here.
So let's go ahead and restart this.
Now this mapping should work out a little bit better.
Let's go ahead and do a refresh.
Now there's the recipes.
And this is actually kind of ugly on the eye.
I'm gonna show you a little trick here
that we can use.
And this is just to make it a little bit
more pleasant for you, you can come in here
and you can do a spring.jackson.serialization.indent_output=true,
that essentially gives us
a pretty print for the Jackson output.
So let's go, we need to do a quick restart here.
Get this back up and running.
There we are, let's go ahead and refresh this now.
Now we can see that our JSON is nicely indented
and a lot more legible than it is
when it's all gathered together.
Just to recap that, we added in a new
Configuration bean that's returning back
a RouterFunction that gets it into the
reactive, the WebFlux context as a route.
And basically we're saying whenever we do
a GET against api/recipes we are going to
manage a ServerResponse with an ok status,
contentType of APPLICATION_JSON.
And for the body we are going to call out
to the recipeService and get a Flux of recipes.
And we also have to tell the body function
that we are sending it the class recipes.
And then it's going to go ahead and render that.
So this is just a little preview,
we will be using this more in the course going forward.
But this is specific to the Spring WebFlux stuff.
And the WebFlux stuff is really, really slick.
So you can see how quickly you can
spool up a very simple microservice
using this functional programming paradigm
that is now available inside of Spring Framework 5.